## Using Matchers

Jest has matchers that we can use to match values in different ways. 

- exact equality
```js
test('two plus two is four', () => {
  expect(2 + 2).toBe(4);
});
```
Here expect gives an expectation object on which we can call matchers ``.toBe(4)`` is the matcher. 
``toBe`` uses ``Object.is`` to test exact equality. 
> **NOTE**  
The ``Object.is()`` method determines whether two values are the same value. 
It doesn't take type coercion in consideration as in ``==`` operator. But closely resembles the ``===`` with only difference in how it differes in matching signed zeroes and NaNs.
``==`` and ``===`` treat -0 and +0 as equal. Also, the ``===`` operator treats ``Number.NaN`` and ``NaN`` as not equal.
``Object.is(value1, value2);``


If we want to check the equality of an object or array we should use ``.toEqual()``. It checks recursively for every field of an object or array. 

We can also check for the opposite of a matcher. 
```js
test('two plus two is four', () => {
  expect(2+2).not.toBe(3)
});
```
- toBeNull matches only null
- toBeUndefined matches only undefined  
- toBeDefined is the opposite of toBeUndefined  
- toBeTruthy matches anything that an if statement treats as true  
- toBeFalsy  matches anything that an if statement treats as false  

### Numbers
  - expect(value).toBeGreaterThan(3);
  - expect(value).toBeGreaterThanOrEqual(3.5);
  - expect(value).toBeLessThan(5);
  - expect(value).toBeLessThanOrEqual(4.5);

For floating point equality, use ``toBeCloseTo`` instead of ``toEqual``, because you don't want a test to depend on a tiny rounding error.

### Strings
You can check strings against regular expressions with toMatch:
```js
test('there is no I in team', () => {
  expect('team').not.toMatch(/I/);
});

test('but there is a "stop" in Christoph', () => {
  expect('Christoph').toMatch(/stop/);
});
```

### Arrays and iterables
You can check if an array or iterable contains a particular item using ``toContain``
```js
const shoppingList = [
  'diapers',
  'kleenex',
  'trash bags',
  'paper towels',
  'milk',
];

test('the shopping list has milk on it', () => {
  expect(shoppingList).toContain('milk');
  expect(new Set(shoppingList)).toContain('milk');
});
```
### Exceptions

``toThrow`` can be used to check for exceptions. 
> Note: the function that throws an exception needs to be invoked within a wrapping function otherwise the ``toThrow`` assertion will fail.

```js
function compileAndroidCode() {
  throw new Error('you are using the wrong JDK');
}

test('compiling android goes as expected', () => {
  expect(() => compileAndroidCode()).toThrow();
  expect(() => compileAndroidCode()).toThrow(Error);

  // You can also use the exact error message or a regexp
  expect(() => compileAndroidCode()).toThrow('you are using the wrong JDK');
  expect(() => compileAndroidCode()).toThrow(/JDK/);
});
```
For Reference to all the [Matchers](https://jestjs.io/docs/expect)


- ``expect.assertions(number)`` verifies that a certain number of assertions are called during a test. This is often useful when testing asynchronous code, in order to make sure that assertions in a callback actually got called.

- ``expect.hasAssertions()`` to verify that at least one assertion is called during a test.