## Testing Asynchronous code

When we have code that runs asynchronously, Jest needs to know when the code it is testing has completed, before it can move on to another test. Jest has several ways to handle this.

### callbacks 

Jest will await any returned promise which means we can always manually construct and return a promise without ``async`` or ``done``. This is redundant since we already have a promise at hand, but the following pattern is possible, if only for illustrative purposes:
```js
it("should return 200 OK for POST method", () => {
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    request(app).post("SOMEENDPOINT")
      .attach("file", "file")
      .expect(200, resolve)
      .catch(err => reject(err))
    ;
  });
});
```

``done`` is typically used for testing asynchronous callbacks. In these cases, it's more elegant to add the ``done`` parameter and invoke it in the callback than it is to promisify the callback by hand. Essentially, done is a shortcut to promisification that abstracts out the new Promise boilerplate shown above.

Note that done can accept a parameter which is treated as an error. This should go into any catch blocks to avoid a timeout and confusing error when the main line code throws before calling done:
```js
it("should return 200 OK for POST method", done => {
  request(app).post("SOMEENDPOINT")
    .attach("file", "file")
    .expect(200, done)
    .catch(err => done(err))
  ;
});
```

> Note: done() should not be mixed with Promises as this tends to lead to memory leaks in your tests


### Promises 

If the code uses promises there is a way more straight forward way to handle asynchronous tests. 
Return a promise from  test, and Jest will wait for that promise to resolve. If the promise is rejected, the test will automatically fail.
```js
test('the data is peanut butter', () => {
  return fetchData().then(data => { // see we are returning a promise 
    expect(data).toBe('peanut butter');
  });
});
```

if we omit this return statement, our test will complete before the promise returned from fetchData resolves and then() has a chance to execute the callback.

If we expect a promise to be rejected, use the ``.catch`` method. Make sure to add ``expect.assertions`` to verify that a certain number of assertions are called. Otherwise, a fulfilled promise would not fail the test.
```js
test('the fetch fails with an error', () => {
  expect.assertions(1);
  return fetchData().catch(e => expect(e).toMatch('error'));
});
```
